Riccardo,
Hello Future Builder!
Thank you for your continued interest in Software Development Engineering full-time opportunities at Amazon!  We are excited to move you forward to the next step of the application process, the Online Assessment.
At Amazon, we hire the best minds in technology to innovate and build on behalf of our customers. The intense focus we have on our customers is the reason we are one of the world’s most beloved brands – customer obsession is part of our company DNA. Amazonians chart their own path by owning their development, their career, and their future. What unites Amazonians across teams and geographies is that we are all striving to delight our customers and make their lives easier. The scope and scale of our mission drives us to seek diverse perspectives, be resourceful, and navigate through ambiguity. By working together on behalf of our customers, we are building the future one innovative product, service, and idea at a time.
Are you ready to become an Amazonian? We want to see your work and resourcefulness in problem solving and coding. The Online Assessment has three main components: Part 1: Code Debugging, Part 2: Coding and Workstyles, and Part 3: Technical Problem Solving.
Below is key information that you will need to take the Part 1 of the Online Assessment. Please read this entire email (including the FAQs at the end) before you start the assessment and keep a copy of this email for your reference. Once you complete Part 1, you will receive an email with next steps.
What is included in Part 1: Code Debugging of the Online Assessment?
At Amazon, it’s important that our code is free from errors, so SDEs often have to review and troubleshoot each other’s code to identify issues. Part 1: Code Debugging requires you to identify and address compilation, logical, and syntactical errors and takes approximately 20 minutes to complete. You will have the choice of viewing code in Java (Java 1.8), C++ (GCC 8.1.0), or C (GCC 8.1.0).
How to prepare for Part 1: Code Debugging:
1.	We suggest you watch the demo prior to taking the assessment, which highlights the user interface and resources. You can also find an overview of the entire assessment process here.
2.	Ensure that you are taking the Online Assessment on a laptop or desktop computer that meets the following requirements:
•	Internet browser: Google Chrome version 10+, Mozilla Firefox version 31+, Internet Explorer version 10+, Microsoft Edge version 18+, or Safari version 10+.
•	Bandwidth: At least 5 Mbps or the videos will be slow when loading.
•	Enable the following on your computer: Active Scripting (JavaScript), Session Cookies, CSS, AJAX.
•	Webcam: A webcam is required at the start of the code debugging test. You will use the webcam to take a picture of yourself during the session. You can test your webcam here.
•	Minimum screen resolution: 1024 x 768.
•	We do not recommend mobile devices or tablets due to limited functionality and user-interface experience.
•	Please ensure you have a reliable Internet connection when completing the assessment.
3.	Other tips and advice for taking Part 1: Code Debugging:
•	When you are ready to begin, please set aside at least 20 minutes of uninterrupted time.
•	You may use publicly accessible online resources (e.g., the JDK or STL), but please do not access sites that require a login or are private repositories. Browser usage is logged.
•	Manage your time wisely. If you get stuck on a code debug problem, move to the next problem and revisit questions as needed.
•	Do not leverage the print screen functionality as your session will be terminated, and you will be locked out.  Also, avoid using copy/paste in the assessment.
Technical Issues?
•	There are troubleshooting guides if you are experiencing technical issues within the assessment.
•	If those do not work, please examine closely where you left off, log out, and log back in using the same Online Assessment link you used for starting the test. Do not repeatedly refresh the screen.
•	For additional troubleshooting tips during the coding portion, please see the FAQs or use the live chat feature for assistance. If the Online Assessment link is redirecting you to a login page, we suggest you double-check that both pop-up blocker and ad-blocker has been disabled on your browser.  If you are using Chrome, try Mozilla or a separate browser.  Also, try clearing cookies or loading in Incognito/Private browsing mode. 
•	If you need additional help, please contact our Amazon Student Programs recruiting team immediately at sp-emea@amazon.com. 
What happens when you finish Part 1: Code Debugging?
1.	After Part 1 of the Online Assessment, you will receive an email within 24 hours.  If you have additional questions, please reach out to us at sp-emea@amazon.com.
2.	Feedback for us: At the end of the Online Assessment, you will receive a survey to provide us feedback.  We care about your experience during the process and your opinion matters to us.
The link below will take you to Part 1: Code Debugging. Please complete Part 1 within five days of receipt. If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to sp-emea@amazon.com.  We are here to help!
Ready to go? Online Assessment link: https://tara.vitapowered.com/workflowengine/workflow/Amazon_HIRE/start/1d236193-9753-4d21-9794-637836dcfb93
Thank you,
Amazon Student Programs
 
Want to find out more about Amazon? Check out these links or follow us on social media:
Amazon Jobs  LinkedIn  Facebook  Twitch
2020-2021 Student Virtual Events  Leadership Principles Day 1 Blog   
Amazon Culture
Amazon Interview
Diversity and Inclusion
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Q: What happens after I complete part one of the assessment?
A: Once you complete the first part of the assessment, we will review and score the work.  You will receive an email prompting you to complete part two based upon the results of part one.
Q: Why does the Online Assessment have three parts? Why can’t I do all parts in one sitting?
A: The Online Assessment evaluates coding skills, technical problem solving, and Amazon’s Leadership Principles.
In order to cover all of those components, there are three parts to the assessment totaling approximately three to four hours of time. We have found that breaking the Online Assessment into pieces makes it easier for students to schedule and complete all assessment components.
Q: How can I prepare for Part 1: Code Debugging?
A: Brush up on C, C++, or Java coding skills, which will be useful before starting the Online Assessment. We also suggest you watch the demo prior to taking the assessment, which highlights the user interface and resources. You can also find an overview of the entire assessment process here. If you’d like to see an Amazon SDE walk through an example  code problem from a typical assessment, you can view a video here.
Additionally, setting aside an appropriate amount of time and finding a quiet location will be important. Don’t forget a strong Internet connection is also key!
Q: If I lose my internet connection in the middle of taking on of the three parts of the Online Assessment, will I be able to start where I left off, or will I start over?
A: If your connection is interrupted, you will be able to resume where you left off in the assessment. Log off and click the assessment link to resume.
Q: I cannot complete the Online Assessment within the number of days allocated. May I request an extension?
A: Yes; however, Amazon hires on a rolling basis and a delay in completing the Online Assessment may impact your candidacy. If you require an extension, please email sp-emea@amazon.com, and our team will follow up within three business days of your email.
